[ Music ]
[ Applause ]
>> Hello, and good afternoon.
I'm Chris Dreessen.
I work on the Cocoa frameworks.
And we're going to be talking
about what's new in AppKit this
year.
So let's dive in.
We have a lot of functionality.
We have some additions to
NSColor.
Some additions to NSScreen.
We have a whole grab bag of
features to help you with text
and fonts.
We're going to do a little pub
crawl right here in this
session.
And we're going to talk about
Toolbar and Touch Bar and
Sidebar.
And then, we're going to talk
about some new control
functionality in AppKit macOS
10.15.
And we'll wrap up our section on
AppKit by talking about NSEvent.
And we'll take a small jump and
go into some Foundation
features.
Including some geometry
enhancements and new formatters
to make localization easier than
ever.
And then we'll wrap things up
with some notes on system
extensions in macOS 10.15.
So before we do that, though,
let's go ahead and address the
big thing.
In macOS 10.15, AppKit is not
the only UI framework on the
system.
We have two new UI frameworks
joining us.
So one of these you've probably
already heard of, and that's
UIKit.
In macOS 10.15, you can
recompile your apps and run your
iPad apps on the Mac.
And if you have a
well-maintained AppKit app.
This is probably not going to be
very interesting for you.
But if you have an iPad app
you've never brought to the Mac.
Or you've had an iPad app you've
been investing a lot in the last
decade and not so much the Mac.
This could be very neat.
You will still use AppKit to add
the finishing touches to your
UIKit app for things like
Toolbar and Touch Bar support.
But we think that can be very
interesting.
The other new framework.
And we're really excited about
this.
Is SwiftUI.
And SwiftUI is this neat,
declarative way of describing
your user interfaces.
And the transitions between
them.
Ways of binding them to your
model data.
And this, we think, is a great
way for making you UI's.
It's Swift native and supports
all sorts of Swift language
features that we really like.
Again, this is something you
will use in conjunction with
AppKit.
You will embed it in view
hierarchies potentially all over
the place.
So there's sessions about both
of these frameworks all
throughout the week.
And we think you'll enjoy them.
Onto AppKit.
So in macOS 10.15, we have some
new system colors in NSColor.
We have teal and indigo.
These are system colors, which
means they're actually dynamic.
Depending on which appearance
you use, they can look
differently.
But we think these are great
colors.
And you'll enjoy using them in
your apps.
We also have an under-the-hood
change in NSColor we want to
talk about.
And that's that NSColor is now
using the tagged pointer system.
We also use for NSNumber and
NSString.
And what is a tagged pointer?
Well, normally, for an NSColor,
we would store the various
component values or other
information as iBars in an
allocated object.
And with tagged pointers, we
instead condense that
information down to a smaller
number of bits and store it in
the pointer itself.
So there's no separate
allocation.
If you had code that was very
heavily allocating or
deallocating NSColors you're
going to notice a performance
win from this.
So we're excited here.
Generally, that's going to be an
invisible change for you.
But there is a case I want to
point out.
If you're accessing a derived
property of the color, for
example, the CGColor, with a
non-tagged version, that could
be cached as an iBar in the
color.
And it's possible the CGColor
would live as long as the
NSColor.
In the snippet we have on
screen, you could see that we
passed that CGColor to a context
set fill color with Color Call.
And that would have worked okay
in the past.
With tagged pointers, using it
outside the auto release pool is
potentially hazardous.
So good hygiene not to do that
anyway.
But something to be aware of
just in case.
So a lot of us have used the
Color Panel.
And there's a near and dear to
us eyedropper tool in the Color
Panel that lets you click it and
bring up a magnifier like this
and then select a specific color
on screen to read the RGB values
of.
In macOS 10.15, we're exposing
this functionality to you too
with a new class called
NSColorSampler.
So NSColorSampler is very
simple.
It has a single-class method on
it called Show.
You pass a block to show and we
will call you back with the
selected color, or null if the
user cancelled out of this, and
we're really excited to share
our implementation with you,
too.
If you have your own
implementation, something to be
aware of in macOS 10.15, is that
screen recording is going to
prompt for user permission.
And this is something that
doesn't happen if you use
NSColorSampler itself.
There's another NSColor API that
we find incredibly useful.
We call it the Dynamic Color
Provider.
And it's really just a new
initializer on NSColor.
It takes two arguments.
One of these arguments is a
block.
And that block accepts an
NSAppearance.
When we go to resolve the color.
Either because we're drawing it
in a bitmap context, or writing
it to a file, or using it as a
layer background color, we're
going to call this block with
whatever appearance is
appropriate at the time.
In our snippet on screen, we use
the NSAppearance best-match
method to tell us whether the
requested appearance was more
like aqua or more like dark
aqua.
And we have hard-coded colors
for each of those cases.
This can be very useful where
you want to have some
programmatic decisions and
dynamicism in your usage of
NSColor in your application.
And this is much simpler than
trying to propagate a hard-coded
literal color across the view
hierarchy on appearance change.
So I mentioned there were two
arguments.
The other argument is a name.
And the name is very significant
for coding purposes.
If you send one of these colors
over an NSConnection,
NSXPCConnection.
When we decode it, we're going
to look it up by name.
So it's also important to have
registered that color on both
sides of the connection.
So colors are great.
NSColor is great.
And they're all better with
screens to view them on.
So we'll talk about some
NSScreen improvements.
If you've ever implemented a
screen picker control, you may
have wanted to have a
user-facing string to identify
an NSScreen with.
And if you use the inherited
description method from
NSObject, your users probably
were not content with NSScreen
0x60000261e460.
So in macOS 10.15,
NSScreen.localizedName will give
you a nice, human, readable
string to describe that screen.
All right, talking about screens
more generally.
Over the last many years,
screens have been getting
brighter and brighter and
brighter.
And there are very few people
who run their screens at max
brightness anymore.
And if we apply this to a
specific picture, we can imagine
that black is a zero component
value and one is the white
component value.
And as we dim that screen, we're
sort of compressing what ones
means in absolute terms.
We are emitting fewer photons
per unit value in our software.
But that monitor hasn't lost
that ability to produce bright
colors.
We can instead allow Extended
Dynamic Range content.
Content that isn't clamped in
the zero to one range.
And keep using the maximum
brightness potential of that
monitor.
To make some images where we
have things brighter than our
referenced white point.
And this isn't actually a new
feature.
This is something you've been
able to do on a number of Macs
since macOS 10.11.
There's two API's that would
help you do this.
One of them is
NSScreen.maximumExtendedDynamic
RangeColorComponentValue.
It actually does stuff.
It's not just the longest
Objective-C property name you've
ever seen.
[ Laughter ]
And what it would do is when
your system was in this Extended
Dynamic Range mode, it would go
ahead and tell you the maximum
component value you could use
before clipping would happen.
So that could be 1.3, for
example.
If the system wasn't in this
mode, it would just return 1.0.
So you'd put the system in this
mode using a different API and
that's
CAMetalLayer.wantsExtended
DynamicRangeContent.
There is also an API in
NSOpenGLView called
wantsExtendedDynamicRangeOpen
GLSurface.
And when either of those is set
to true.
You can get that extra headroom
from this API.
So something we've added macOS
10.15 is an even longer
Objective-C property name.
The important bit is actually
shorter.
That's this maximumPotential
piece.
And this will tell you that
headroom, that maximum value.
Even if the system isn't in this
Extended Dynamic Range mode.
And that can be very useful.
If you are working with Extended
Dynamic Range content.
You might have multiple possible
pipelines you can send your
image data through.
And a floating point pipeline
for extended content is probably
more expensive than a BJRA
pipeline, for example.
So knowing that you have that
headroom to play with ahead of
time.
Can let you conditionalize that
support.
So there's another API I want to
talk about.
Specifically, for the new Apple
display we saw yesterday.
And that display is absolutely
amazing.
Because of how bright it can
get.
It can sustain 1000 Nits
indefinitely.
And because of that ability, we
like to say it's a reference
quality display.
We can say that for a specific
component value.
There will be an absolute number
of Nits for that pixel.
Now, it's very bright.
But it's not infinitely bright.
If you go ahead and produce a
bright enough pixel value, it
won't actually be able to
represent it.
And that reference quality
attribute we talked about will
be compromised.
We'll have to scale the image
content down to fit in the
brightness range available.
And that's what NSScreen
maximumReference value is
telling you.
If you exceed this value, you're
not going to be able to dish out
absolute Nits anymore.
Okay, so I mentioned see
CAMetalLayer as part of a way of
getting an Extended Dynamic
Range content.
And I want to point out
something that if you're using
MetalLayer on the Mac today, you
should be doing.
And that's you should be paying
attention to which screen and
which Metal device your
CAMetalLayer is going to be
displayed on.
That's a little convoluted.
You have to get your window and
your window's screen and your
screen's device description.
And then you have to ask it for
this hard-coded string that you
found in our documentation.
But we never export it in any of
our headers.
And finally, you'll pass that
the CDDirectDisplay to figure
out which device to use.
And it's worth it because that
will allow you to avoid moving
the data between GPUs across the
system bus.
But we've made this better in
macOS 10.15.
CAMetalLayer and MetalView have
a new preferred device property
that will answer that question
for you.
It really reduces your code
around this.
So we're excited that you get to
use that this year.
And that covers what we wanted
to say about screens.
And now we're going to go into a
whole diversity of text
features.
The first of these I want to
mention is NSTextView uses
adaptive color mapping for dark
appearance.
And this is a feature that you
can turn on and off in Text
Edit.
I have snapshots of it in both
aqua and dark aqua appearances.
Using colors from the system
crayon picker.
And you can see that when this
feature is activated, snow and
licorice, for example, almost
invert colors.
Meanwhile, the more saturated
and vibrant colors retain that
same color character.
But change brightness to better
match the appearance they're in.
So this can be very useful for
making text use with playing
content where you want them to
fit in with the current
appearance.
And it can be very useful for
Rich Text documents where that
desire to make them fit in is
more important than making them
appear exactly as they will on a
printed page, for example.
Generally, we think this is the
right thing to do.
But if you have an app that's
focused around authoring Rich
Text content.
You probably want to either opt
out or offer the user the
ability to turn this off.
So they can decide that they
want a representation matching
printed content more than their
screen.
So I think most people in this
room are familiar with
NSSpellChecker.
If not as a developer, then as a
user.
And in macOS 10.15, we're happy
to announce that NSSpellChecker
has a successor.
And that successor is
NSTextCheckingController.
So NSSpellChecker worked within
a text view.
But NSTextCheckingController
works with a variety of systems.
We use it in UIKit, and WebKit,
and AppKit.
And you could use it yourself by
implementing the
NSTextCheckingClient protocol.
But in addition to spell
checking, it does other things.
It does grammar checking.
It can do data detection to find
URLs and phone numbers and
dates.
And you can control all of that
and configure whether it's going
to merely highlight misspellings
or automatically correct them.
So we think it's a very flexible
API.
And if you're big on text input,
it's something worth checking
out.
A small addition related to text
is that almost all of the
NSText-related classes support
secure coding now.
So if you wanted to use these as
part of the vocabulary of --
over an NSXPC connection, they
will work splendidly.
We're probably all familiar with
NSFont.
And slightly fewer of us are
familiar with NSFontDescriptor.
And NSFontDescriptor is a neat
class that lets us look up and
transform fonts using sort of
semantic attributes about them.
So I've made a little sample app
here.
And the top row is a font.
I've hard-coded in Interface
Builder.
But the subsequent rows, I've
configured using the
SNFontDescriptor System Design
API, which is new in macOS
10.15.
And Latin [inaudible] lets me go
ahead and say.
"I want to switch to a rounder
font, or serif version, or a
monospace font."
And there's a session about
this.
Which will go into much greater
detail about it.
But we think this is a great way
of stylized your applications.
So if anyone has a
cross-platform app, where they
are writing Rich Text documents
on both Mac OS and iOS, or even
an app that's not cross-platform
where they are reading documents
from the other platform.
You may have hit a situation
where even though the document
is specifying the same font
sizes.
They visually look very
different.
And that's because we have very
different screen densities
between our iOS devices and Mac
devices.
In macOS 10.15, we have new
attributed string API's that you
can use when reading and writing
attributed strings to Rich Text
documents.
And you can tell us what the
source and destination operating
systems are and we will
automatically adjust font sizes
to make them appear visually the
same.
In this case, we brought
160-point font down to 120
point.
Which is roughly where they're
visually the same height.
The last text feature I want to
talk about is in addition to
NSLayoutManager called
usesDefaultHyphenation.
And in the past, you'd be able
to get the NSText classes to
hyphenate it for you by using an
NSParagraphStyle to control the
threshold of hyphenation.
This LayoutManager property is a
little bit easier to use.
It defaults to off.
In which case you got no
hyphenation, like on the left.
And if you set it on, we'll pick
a default value for hyphenation.
And you can see on the right
that we've hyphenated
encyclopedia and
internationalization.
So we think these Text API's
will really help you polish the
corners and edges around your
text systems.
We have some great new stuff in
NSToolbar.
The First Edition is a new
property on NSToolbarItem called
isBordered.
In the past, if you wanted to
get this push-button style
appearance in an NSToolbar, you
would have to allocate your own
NS -- or instance of NSButton
and configure it and then you'd
use it as a custom view on your
Toolbar item.
And that would work but it was
extra effort for you, and
additionally, you couldn't take
advantage of NSToolbarItem's
built-in support for automatic
enabling and disabling.
But if you go ahead and use this
as bordered property, you'll get
all of that for free.
Additionally, NSToolbarItem has
a new title property which lets
you configure your Toolbar items
to be string-based buttons
instead of iconic ones.
And this is distinct from the
label property.
Which would appear below these
buttons if we have configured
the Toolbar to show labels as
well.
That is not the
NSToolbar-related class to gain
functionality in macOS 10.15.
We have also added a number of
features to NSToolbarItemGroup
to make it incredibly versatile
and useful and the first of
these is a number of convenience
constructors for it.
And these are just going to let
you build the same great Toolbar
UI's in fewer lines of code.
But NSToolbarItemGroup has
become more flexible at the same
time.
If you look at the image on the
right side of the screen.
You can see that it now has
support for representing its
items as a segmented control.
And it can also represent them
as pulldown and pop-up menus
too.
So this makes it a very
versatile Toolbar control.
Because of the way it uses the
other Toolbar items as a
vocabulary.
We can also automatically create
a collapsed representation for
when you have too many Toolbar
items for the window width.
There's a very similar effect
you can get using a new
NSMenuToolbarItem class.
And this is much like the menu
item representations of the
ToolbarItemGroup but it uses an
NSMenu as currency instead.
And that's significant because
you can use NSMenu features like
sub menus or separator items or
even the ability to use a custom
view for your menu items.
So it's a very powerful tool, if
you want to have sophisticated
drill-down behaviors in your
Toolbar.
NSTouchBar has also received a
few enhancements and macOS
10.15.
The first of these I want to
note is a new class property on
NSTouchBar itself.
And that's
isAutomaticCustomizedTouchBar
MenuItemEnabled.
And that will sound familiar.
NSApplication has that exact
same property.
You could use this Touch Bar one
in code where you wanted to
factor it in such a way to not
reference the NSApplication.
And one example of that is if
you're writing a UIKit
application you're not going to
have an NSApplication instance
to talk to anyway.
A more significant control is
the new NSStepperTouchBarItem
class.
Just like an on-screen stepper,
this is very useful for when
you're doing a discrete entry
for things such as dates and
numbers.
But given the larger size in the
Touch Bar and the horizontal
layout, you can also use this
for new applications.
Like visually selecting the tool
in a drawing app.
So we're really excited about
this new TouchBarItem class.
We think you'll be able to put
it to good use in your
applications.
NSSliderTouchBarItem has a few
small enhancements too.
You may have experienced a case
where you used an
NSSliderTouchBarItem.
And it was a little bit too
small for your tastes.
You could fix this by grabbing
the slider from the TouchBarItem
instance and adding auto layout
constraints to it.
In macOS 10.15, you can just set
the minimum slider width
directly on the item and we'll
take care of that for you.
Similarly, if your slider has
global ambitions.
You can check them by using the
maximum slider with the
property.
And lastly, we'll talk about a
bit -- a little bit about
Sidebar Metrics.
In macOS 10.15, you can toggle
the size of a Sidebar using the
setting and the general pane of
System Preferences.
And we default to medium.
But you can also use small and
large.
And I want to call this out
because if you haven't known
about this feature.
You maybe have not been
including artwork appropriate
for these small and large sizes.
So if you're using bitmap
artwork, go ahead and add
representations for that.
Or use a resolution independent
version.
Similarly, there's a new feature
and macOS 10.15 to allow
automatically picking the light
and dark appearance.
That's also available in the
general pref pane.
Okay, we covered controls for
Toolbars and Touch Bars.
Let's talk about some controls
that are more broadly
applicable.
The first of these, we're
excited to announce, this is
NSSwitch.
NSSwitch is a full subclass of
NSControl.
It supports bindings.
It supports formatters.
But it exists alongside the
existing checkbox functionality.
A question you probably have in
your mind is, "When should I use
NSSwitch?
And when should I use a
checkbox?"
And if you are already using a
checkbox, you should probably
keep using a checkbox.
They are generally the right
control to use.
We think NSSwitches are better
used when you have a really
heavy toggle.
Something that's toggling a lot
of functionality on and off.
And in this example I have here,
we have a master toggle on the
left, which is going to enable
all of the individual sharing
services on the right.
In macOS 10.15, we've invested a
lot of effort into
NSCollectionView.
And one of the things we're
excited to talk about is
compositional layout.
And in this scheme, you no
longer need to subclass
NSCollectioViewLayout to modify
it.
There are a number of
interesting features you can
throw in.
Such as container-relative
sizing, layout breaks and
sections.
As well as nestable groups.
And also making individual
sections scrollable.
And of course, all of that works
in both right-to-left and
left-to-right languages.
There is also a new
CollectionView feature called
Diffable Data Source.
And these are identifier-based
data sources that let us track
things like the addition or
removal of items or the movement
of an item between two
locations.
And we can automatically infer
the right animations to use.
So this means you won't have to
use performBatchUpdates or
reloadData.
Okay, backing away from
app-specific controls to an IB
feature.
IB storyboards are a really
great way of connecting the
various view controllers in your
application.
And historically, your view
controller would be initialized
through in it with coder.
And you'd have to find a
different way of getting
different information into the
view controller.
That wasn't necessarily
difficult.
But it did mean your code was
factored maybe more broadly than
you wanted.
If you look at the snippet here,
you can see I have a function
called showPetDetails.
And this returns a new view
controller passing along a coder
from IB.
As well as inserting our own
notion of a selected pet name.
So this is a great way of
bundling those separate
initialization and configuration
steps.
And the other important thing to
note about this is there's this
IBSegueAction annotation
attached to this function.
And by doing that, we can go to
the connections inspector and
interface builder for our segue
and wire it up directly to this
method.
So we think this is very useful
for adding extra configuration
into your view controllers and
storyboards.
So a great feature of all AppKit
controls is how they support
auto layout.
They automatically know how to
measure their content and feed
that into the auto layout
engine.
And that means that you can do
things like change the strings
on these text fields and
buttons.
And auto layout will just
automatically reflect the view
hierarchy and window for us to
look great.
Sometimes, though, there are UIs
where that's actually not
important.
So in this grid view, it's the
grid that is determining the
size of everything else and the
intrinsic size of these labels
doesn't actually matter.
But normally, AppKit would still
go ahead and measure these
controls and feed them into the
auto layout engine even though
they won't affect the final
result.
In macOS 10.15, you can turn
that off.
NSView gains two new properties
to turn off the measurement
behaviors for both horizontal
and vertical axes.
And we think that can be a great
way of getting back some
performance in UIs where you
know the intrinsic size of a
control isn't going to matter.
There's one other
controller-related thing I want
to talk about.
And it's a bit more broad than
NSControl.
That's NSResponder.
And its behavior relating to
block Capture.
So if you look at our snippet on
screen you can see we have two
blocks.
We have an outer block that's
going to be executed on a
background thread.
And we have an inner block
that's going to be executed on
the main thread.
And this is a fairly common
pattern.
We do our work in the
background.
And then we go ahead and assign
the results of that work to the
UI on the main thread.
But this snippet in macOS 10.14
could have led to crashes and
corruption.
And that's because if the only
thing retaining this text field
is these blocks, the order of
destruction of the blocks isn't
defined.
If the outer block deallocates
last, the text field will
deallocate on a background
thread.
And the text field, by virtue of
being a responder, is part of
the responder chain.
It can be part of the view
hierarchy or the key view loop.
So there's all these global data
structures that aren't safe to
modify from the background which
is what dealloc would do.
In macOS 10.15, this isn't a
problem.
NSResponder will automatically
move the dealloc method for it
and its descendants to the main
thread.
So it becomes safe to capture
these in blocks without being
concerned about where those
blocks are released.
And we think this is going to
remove a whole complex set of
crashes for many of your apps.
Where the corruption from doing
work on a background thread
isn't visible until seconds or
minutes afterward.
So I want to talk about Open and
Save panels for a moment.
We have a fairly broad change in
macOS 10.15.
And that's that Open and Save
panels are now using a separate
process.
This is a behavior that's
already been present for Sandbox
applications and we've simply
brought it over to the remaining
apps.
Generally, this should be a
silent change.
We don't think you're going to
notice anything here apart from
some performance and security
benefits.
However, if you are sub-classing
Open and Save panel and relying
on specific view hierarchy
configurations you might run
into problems.
And we'd be happy to see you in
the labs to talk about those and
help work through them.
We also have some new
NSWorkspace methods in macOS
10.15.
These are methods that can open
one or more URLs or open an
application.
And that will sound familiar
because you'll think NSWorkspace
already has methods to do that.
It does. But the new methods are
asynchronous.
So they're not going to block
the main threat at all.
When the application finishes
launching or the operation is
cancelled we will call you back
using a completion handler.
And in addition to being
asynchronous.
these methods also offer a high
degree of control over how we
launch those URLs and
applications.
And that control is achieved
through the new
NSWorkspace.OpenConfiguration
object.
This is just a sampling of the
knobs it has to play with.
But you can control whether the
user needs to participate in
this process.
So for example, if you're
requesting a server mount or if
we don't know what application
to use, the user might need to
pick which application.
And you can instead suppress
that behavior and just cancel
the Open process.
You can also control whether an
application or document is added
to the Recents menu.
And there's an entire variety of
things for controlling which
applications can be hidden on
launch or which are activated in
the background or foreground.
So we think whatever your URL
application opening needs,
NSWorkspace will accommodate a
wonderfully in macOS 10.15.
We're going to talk about Events
for a little bit.
And there's a feature I want to
show you.
And this is -- if you hover your
mouse over the green button in
the window title bar, you're
going to get this new menu.
And the first set of options
concerns things like making a
window full screen or
positioning it in a shared
full-screen space.
And those are fairly useful.
But there's another feature that
I think is even more useful and
that's the ability to move a
window to another display.
As someone who is constantly
moving their laptop to different
external monitors, I found this
to be incredibly useful.
But you don't actually have to
use a conventional display.
iPads will function as
additional displays now too.
So you kind of see where I'm
going with this.
Given that the iPad application
is named Pencil Draw.
And we have this beautiful
cursive script on there.
This supports Apple Pencil.
So many iPads can now function
as tablet devices for Macs.
So in macOS 10.15, we're going
to have many more tablet users.
If you've been thinking about
adding tablet support to your
app at any point in the last
many years, now is a great time
to adopt it.
So I'm going to show you what
you need to know to do that.
Tablet Events come in basically
as normal mouse events.
There's a difference though.
And that's if you pay attention
to the NSEvent SubType field,
there is a tabletPoint value
there.
And when you see a tabletPoint
Event, it one, comes from a
tablet, but it's also going to
have pressure information
attached.
And paying attention to that
pressure information is critical
for making things like that nice
cursive stroke.
Where you have different pen
widths throughout it.
If you've used the pencil APIs
on iOS in the past, there was
something you could do by
registering a handler.
To retroactively receive updates
to pressure in the past.
That is not present on the Mac.
You can just pay attention to
the pressure field in the
NSEvent.
There's another convention
related to the Apple Pencil I
want to mention.
And this is that you can double
tap it, the side of the pencil,
and it will switch whatever the
current tool is in a drawing
app, for example, and we call
this the changeModeEvent.
There's a new EventType forum on
this event.
And there's a new responder
method to handle directing that
through the responder chain.
In many cases, you might want to
have tablet functionality that
isn't actually anchored in a
responder subclass like a View.
But you might still want to
handle events directly.
And there's a way you can
accomplish this.
Using the existing
LocalEventMonitor API.
So if you look at the snippet on
the bottom of the screen, you
can see that we use the
NSEvent.addLocalEventMonitor for
events function to catch these
changeModeEvents.
And then we just cycle through
our tools and we return the
event allowing it to flow
through the rest of the
responder chain.
So that can be a great way of
factoring your code more
usefully.
Okay. Let's talk about a
Foundation feature.
We have some new Geometry data
types.
I know normally, when we get
into Foundation, everyone's on
the edge of their seat.
This year, you can pick which
edge of the seat you're on.
[ Laughter ]
The data types are
NSDirectionalRectEdge,
NSDirectionalEdgeInsets, and
NSRectAlignment.
And instead of working in
currency, like Min X or Max S,
or left and right.
these are using leading and
trailing identifiers instead.
So they'll automatically flip
based on context in a
left-to-right or right-to-left
system.
And NSCollectionView uses these
exactly for this purpose.
We think you'll be able to adopt
them directly in your
applications too.
Another Foundation feature I
want to talk about that will
help with localization is new
formatters.
The first of these is the
NSRelativeDateFormatter.
And NSRelativeDateFormatter has
two important properties, a
dateTimeStyle, which allows you
to pick whether you're sort of
working at absolute units or
more colloquial terms.
The one week ago versus last
week.
As well as the unitsStyle,
controlling how verbose or how
terse our language is.
There's also a new
NSListFormatter class.
And NSListFormatter is
interesting in that instead of
formatting sort of a scalar
object, it will format an array
of objects instead.
And it will do that by using a
separate item format for each
object individually.
The value of the List Formatter
adds is in knowing where to
place the commas between the
individual formatted strings.
As well as whether at Oxford
comma is necessary or a
conjunction.
There is a session covering this
in much greater detail later,
which I encourage you to check
out.
Foundation also has a new
feature we're very excited about
called Combine.
And Combine is a Swift API for
connecting properties of the
objects in your applications to
other properties in your
application.
So a specific example I want to
show is this awakeFrontNib
method we've implemented where
we go ahead and we bind to the
name property from our model
object to the value of an NSText
field.
And whenever that name changes,
that text field is going to
update its string.
So this is incredibly powerful.
It has applications beyond just
UI binding.
And there's another session
dedicated to specifically this
that we think is going to be
fantastic.
So go ahead and check that out
this week, too.
And finally, I want to mention
some changes in system
extensions for macOS.
We have a small addition to the
system extension family in the
form of a non-UI file provider
action extension.
And if you are familiar with a
UI-based file or act -- file
provider action extension, this
is the same thing.
But sometimes, you just don't
need that extra UI.
You can do without it.
And this satisfies that need.
Something else that we think is
even more interesting is there's
functionality.
That in the past, you would have
had to use a Kernel Extension to
add the DOS.
And we've now made system
extensions to do similar things.
We have new Network Extensions.
We have DriverKit to help
writing certain types of device
drivers.
And we have a new Endpoint
Security system that will help
write antivirus software.
So if you have been writing
kernel extensions all these
years, we think these will be
very useful for you.
We're excited with the security
enhancements we get to make
around this.
And we think you'll be excited
about not doing kernel mode
debugging anymore.
So that covers our additions.
I want to remind you of many of
the great things that we covered
today.
We had additions for NSColor
including new dynamic system
colors, new ways of embedding
your own programmatic dynamicism
into the NSColor system, as well
as, a color sampler class you
can use yourself for picking
colors directly from the screen.
We covered a number of APIs in
NSScreen including those for you
to make great usage of Extended
Dynamic Range.
And we had an entire variety of
text enhancements.
If you want your apps to look
great in dark mode and you're
presenting either simple or Rich
Text, the dark mode enhancements
are going to be great.
The text checking controllers
will let you enrich your own
text engines like never before.
And our compatibility between
iOS and macOS regarding text
sizing is very useful especially
given the presence of UIKit on
the Mac this year.
We covered controls like
NSSwitch, as well as
CollectionView.
And we definitely encourage you
to check out the CollectionView
session because CollectionView
has become a very important part
of our UI vocabulary.
We covered some great
enhancements for NSToolbar
allowing you to make push
buttons more easily and more
versatile ways of using the
ToolbarItem group.
And then we've also covered some
things for handling tablet
events in NSEvent and specific
support for the Apple Pencil.
And again, with so many more
tablet users coming to the Mac
in the near future we think if
your app can use tablets, it's a
great feature to add.
And we wrapped up with the
localization enhancements for NS
-- or for Foundation geometry
data types and the new
formatters.
So we hope you're excited to
adopt these two.
And please have a great week.
Thank you very much.
[ Applause ]